Spring 2026 CS307 Project Part1 
Main Contributors:
Leader and Overall Design: ZHU Yueming
Document reviewer: WANG Zhongqiu 
Data Tester: Yin Chaoyue
General Requirement:
It is a group project with only 2 teammates who are in the same lab session. Each group 
should finish the project independently and submit only one report written by the 
teammates.
The teammate you select for Project 1 will also be your teammate for Project 2. It is not 
allowed to change teammates once paired.
You should submit the report before the deadline. All late submissions after the deadline will 
receive a score of zero.
DO NOT copy ANY sentences and figures from the Internet and your classmates. Plagiarism 
is strictly prohibited in this course.
The text description should be rigorous, the overall design should be logical organised, the 
report structure and the layout of diagram should be clear and easy to read, otherwise, you 
will receive a penalty in the scoring stage.
The number of pages for your report should be between 10 and 16. Reports only or less 
than 10 pages and more than 16 pages will receive a penalty in the scoring stage.
DBMS can help us manage data in a convenient manner and improve the efficiency of data 
retrieval. Your work of Project 1 is mainly divided into four parts below:
1. Design an E-R diagram based on the provided data file and data relationships.
2. Design a relational database using PostgreSQL according to the provided data file.
3. Import all data into the database.
4. Use a programming language to access the database and perform CRUD operations.
Introduce Data 
The raw data for this project comes from https://github.com/jpatokal/openflights
. Based on the 
original data, we have performed basic filtering and data integration, selecting flight routes from 
certain cities to generate flight, tickets. You are required to analyze the data, filter out dirty data, 
split tables, identify unique entries in each table, and complete the design of a relational database.
The data we provide has been preliminarily integrated and comes from the following files:
airline.csv
airport.csv
passenger.csv
region.csv
tickets.csv
In addition to creating a relational database based on this data, we also need to import the data 
into the database and generate primary keys. At the same time, the following requirements 
should also be completed.
Add the code of region to the Airport table. Note that there may be some duplicate region 
data, and certain regions require special handling, such as Hong Kong. Please do not complain 
about data issues, as in most cases, the data we obtain is not 100% aligned with our needs.
The ticket table needs to be split. Therefore, you need to read carefully to determine which 
columns can be extracted and split out.
Create a new table called ticket_order, which represents the booking status of passenger. 
It should include passenger information, ticket information, cabin class, as well as time and 
date details.
Analyze the following question: How to find flights that arrive before 11:00? During the 
design process, you not only need to adhere to the First Normal Form principle, but also 
consider query efficiency, which means the situation where the arrival time is +1 day must 
be handled appropriately.
Requirement of the Project Report 
Note: Some tasks consist of basic requirements and advanced requirements. You may not get full 
points if you only meet the basic ones. 
Basic Information of Your Group 
1. Names, student IDs, and the lab session of the group members
2. You are required to write down the contributions and the percentages of contributions for 
each group member. Please clearly state which task(s)/part of the task(s) is/are done by 
which member in the group.
If you failed to link a task/part of a task to one of the group members, we will not 
count the score for the task (since we don't know who accomplished this task; maybe 
it was done by an elf while you were sleeping at night?).
About one page
Task 1: E-R Diagram (20%) 
Make an E-R Diagram of your database design with any diagram software. Hand-drawn results will 
not be accepted. Please follow the standard of E-R diagrams.
In the report, you are required to provide a snapshot of the E-R diagram. Also, please specify the 
name of the software/online service you use for drawing the diagram.
About one page
Task 2: Database Design (20%) 
Design the tables and columns based on the background provided above. Generate the E-R 
diagram via the Show Visualization feature if you are using DataGrip (if you plan to use other 
GUI database clients, please find the corresponding way by yourself to generate the E-R diagram 
according to the client you use.).  Briefly describe the design of the tables and columns including 
(but not limited to) the meanings of tables and columns
In the report, you are required to provide the following content:
1. Attach the snapshot of the E-R diagram generated by DataGrip.
2. Briefly describe the table designs and the meanings of each table and column.
In addition, please submit an SQL file as an attachment that contains the DDLs (
create table 
statements) for all the tables you created. Please make it into a separate file but not copy and 
paste the statements into the report.
About one or two pages
Notes for the database design: 
Following requirements you must be accomplished.
1. All data items should base on csv file.
2. Your design needs to follow the requirements of the three normal forms.
3. Every row in each table should be uniquely identified by its primary key. (You may use a 
simple or a composite primary key).
4. Every table should be involved in a foreign key. No isolated table is allowed. (每个表要有外
键，或者有其他表的外键指向。)
5. Your design should contain no circular foreign-key links. (对于表之间的外键⽅向，不能有环。
例如：A表有外键关联B表，B表有外健关联C表，C表有外健关联A表)
6. You should use appropriate data types for different fields.
Try to complete the following requirements
1. Each table should contain at least one mandatory (“Not Null”) column (including the primary 
key but not the id column).
2. Other than the system-generated self-increment ID column, there should be at least one 
column with the "unique" constraint. (除了主键⾃增的id之外，需要有其他unique约束的列)
3. Your design should be easy to expand when requirements change. 
Task 3: Data Import (30%) 
In this task, you should write scripts to import the content in 
csv into the database you have 
designed before. After importing the data, you should also make sure all data is successfully 
imported.
Task 3.1 Basic Requirements: 5% 
Introduce the scripts that being used to import data. You can list a similar table below to describe 
the functions of all the scripts you submit in the attachment.
Script name
Author
Description
Script1.py
xxx
Run this script to complete the import of passenger data.
A description of how you use the script to import 
csv file. In this part, You should clearly state the 
steps.
You can create an intermediate file based on the original 
intermediate file through a script. 
You can also directly import 
csv file, and then import the 
csv file in a programming language and import it line by line. 
If you manually modified the file, please also explain the specific modifications.
About one or two pages
Task 3.2 Data Accuracy checking: 15% 
According to the data in csv file, we will give several questions in presentation week to check 
whether all data have been correctly imported into your database.  Please prepare SQL queries 
for the following requirements in the report, and you will run the queries by datagrip in  this part 
during your presentation week.
10% for accuracy
5% for Whether to prepare SQL statements before and complete the process of accuracy 
checking on time
1. Given a 
region code  , list all cities.
2. Given a 
city name , list all 
airports and its 
3. Given a 
iata_code .
region code , list all airlines, including 
airline_code and 
4. Given a 
iata_code as departure and a 
airline_name
iata_code as an arrival airline, list all flights, 
including following info:
flight_number
source_city
source_region
destination_city
destination_region
5. Given a 
data , 
departure city name and 
arrival city name , find and list all tickets 
including following info, and the result set should by ascending order of 
departure_time
arrive_time
the name of departure airport
the name of arrival airport
economy price
economy price :
6. Continue to the question 5, add condition that find departure time after 
time before 
xxx .
About two page
Task 3.3 Advanced requirements: 10% 
xxx and find arrivial 
You may also need to finish the following advanced requirement to get the remaining points.
2. Try to import data across multiple systems (e.g., Windows, MacOS, Linux).
3. Experiment with other databases; we recommend use OpenGauss.
4. Try to import data with different data volumes. For example, generate more tickets info. or 
generate more tickets order.
5. Import data as efficiently as possible, especially for the tickets table. From splitting to 
importing, how should it be designed to achieve optimal efficiency?
For the advanced points, please make sure to describe your test environment, procedures, and 
actual time costs. It is required to write a paragraph or two to analyze the experiment results. 
About 0 to 4 pages
Task 4: Perform Create, Read, Update, and Delete (CRUD)
operations using the database. (30%)
In this section, 5% of the grade is allocated to your presentation skills, which includes your 
familiarity with the system, your communication skills, and your time management 
abilities.
Basic requirements that you need complete in this part (15%)：
1. Given a date range, generate tickets based on flight information. 
2. Passengers can search tickets based on the following combination, and then return all 
information about a ticket. Required fields must be filled in, and optional fields can be selected 
(zero or multiple):
Required: departure city, arrival city, date
Optional: airline, departure time, arrival time
3. Simulate a passenger's ticket booking process, and record the current time in the 
ticket_order table. May includes:
Search tickets (as in part 2)
Select a ticket to book, and view the prices for economy class and business class
Book the ticket: add a row to the 
ticket_order table with the current time, and 
decreasing the seat availability by one
4. Support search ticket orders and deleting ticket orders.
Advance requirements (10%):
1. Find ways to improve the efficiency of the generation tickets process.
2. In order management, add login and authentication functionality, ensuring that each person 
can only view their own orders.
3. Redesign the tables so that passengers can add their own contacts, and when booking 
tickets, they can book not only for themselves but also for their contacts.
4. Design a visually appealing user-facing interface.
5. Comprehensive code design, such as being able to complete all functions with a single 
program launch, and having a relatively complete architectural hierarchy within the program, 
etc.
Overall requirements in this section:
For this part, you need to use Java, C++, or Python to access the database.
All functions in this part require the design of command-line prompt output statements. 
For example:
Please select an operation:
1. Generate tickets.
2. Search Flights.
3. Manager orders.
>> Input:
 1
Please input the date range:
>> Input:
   2026.04.10
   2026.04.16
...
Finish Generate xxxx rows tickeds info.
In your report, please  describe the features you implemented in this section, along with 
screenshots of your operation.
About 0 to 4 pages
How to Submit Your Report 
Submit the report in PDF format with necessary attachments (such as SQL scripts and source code 
files) on the bb website before 23:55 on April 26th, 2026, Beijing Time (UTC+8). For attachments, 
please put them into separate directories based on the task, and compress them into a 
.zip 
archive.
Disclaimer 
All names, characters, and events in the context of this project are purely fictional. The ticket data 
in the files are randomly generated simulated data. Any resemblance to actual events, entities, or 
persons is entirely coincidental and should not be interpreted as the views or implications of the 
CS307 course teaching team.